Developer guide docs (#862)
hhursev/recipe-scrapers: docs/in-depth-guide-ingredient-groups.md

# In Depth Guide: Ingredient Groups

> **Draft**

> Sometimes a website will format the list ingredients into groups, where each group contains the ingredients needed for a particular aspect of the recipe. Recipe schema has no way to represent this grouping, so all of the ingredients are given in a single list and the groupings are lost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes a website will format lists of ingredients using groups, where each group contains the ingredients needed for a particular aspect of the recipe. Recipe schema has no way to represent these groupings, so all of the ingredients are presented as a single list and information about the groupings are lost.
```

This library allows a scraper to return the ingredients in the groups defined in the recipe, if the functionality is added to that scraper.

## `ingredient_groups()`

The `ingredient_groups()` function returns a list of `IngredientGroup` objects. Each `IngredientGroup` is a dataclass that represents a group of ingredients:

```python
@dataclass
class IngredientGroup:
    ingredients: List[str]
    purpose: Optional[
        str
    ] = None  # this group of ingredients is {purpose} (e.g. "For the dressing")
```

The *purpose* is the ingredient group heading, such as *"For the dressing"*, *"For the sauce"* etc. The *ingredients* is the list of ingredients that comprise that group.

This dataclass is defined in `_grouping_utils.py` and should be imported from there

```pyth
from ._grouping_utils import IngredientGroup
```

The `ingredient_groups()` function has a default implementation in the `AbstractScraper` class that returns a single `IngredientGroup` object with `purpose` set to `None` and `ingredients` set to the output from the scraper's `ingredients()` function.

> To add ingredient group support to a scraper, the `ingredient_group` function needs to be overridden in the scraper class. The are three main things to consider when implementing ingredient groups support:
> 
> 1. The groups and their contents are not present in the Recipe schema. They must be extracted from the recipe HTML.
> 2. The ingredients found in `ingredients()` and `ingredient_groups()` must be the same. This may sound obvious but there can sometimes minor differences in the ingredients in the schema and the ingredients in the HTML.
> 3. Not all recipes on a website will use ingredient groups, so the implementation must support recipes that do and recipes that don't have ingredient groups. For recipes that don't have ingredient groups, the output should be the same as default implementation (i.e. a single `IngredientGroup` with `purpose=None` and `ingredients=ingredients()`).

Reviewer: Trying to make some of the wording here a bit more direct.  I don't think my suggestions are perfect, so I think some more edits may be needed:

```suggestion
Adding ingredient group support to a scraper involves overriding the `ingredient_group` function for it.  There are three important points to consider:

1. The schema.org Recipe format does not support groupings - so scraping HTML is going to be required in the implementation. 
2. The `group_ingredients` function requires that the schema.org ingredients list matches the ingredients found from the HTML - so it's important to make sure that these match.
3. Not all recipes on a website will use ingredient groups, so the implementation must degrade gracefully in cases where groupings aren't available. For recipes that don't have ingredient groups, the output should be the same as default implementation (i.e. a single `IngredientGroup` with `purpose=None` and `ingredients=ingredients()`).
```

Author: I don't agree with the change to the 2nd point. It isn't that the `group_ingredients` function needs them to match (in fact we added functionally to handle the cases where there isn't an exact match between the two sets of ingredients), it's more than the scraper should be presenting the same thing in two different ways: a single list or in groupings.

Author: That was original my thinking when writing this. 

However we added a test the `ScraperTest` base class that checks that both methods return the same ingredients, so the wording here should reflect that. I'll have a bit more of a think on how the phrase this.

In many cases the structure of how ingredients and group heading appear in the HTML is very similar. Some helper functions have been developed to make the implementation easier.

## _grouping_utils.py

The `_grouping_utils.py` file contains a helper function (`group_ingredients(...)`) that will handle the extraction of ingredients groups and their headings from the HTML, make sure the ingredients in the groups match those return from `.ingredients()`, and then return the groups.

The `group_ingredients()` function takes four arguments:

```pyth
def group_ingredients(
    ingredients_list: List[str],

>     soup: BeautifulSoup,

Reviewer: Not directly related to this documentation: I've wondered before whether we should relocate `group_ingredients` onto `AbstractScraper` so that we don't have to pass the `soup` argument here.

Maybe if-and-when that is refactored, that'd be a good case for updating documentation and codebase at the same time.

Author: I had thought along on the same lines when implementing `group_ingredients`. It felt like adding a lot to the `AbstractScraper` that most scrapers probably wouldn't use.

Reviewer: Yep, seems fair, and it's a small detail.  We can skip that and maybe reconsider it later :+1:

from ._grouping_utils import group_ingredients

class RainbowPlantLife(AbstractScraper):
    ...

    def ingredient_groups(self):
        return group_ingredients(
            self.ingredients(),
            self.soup,
            ".wprm-recipe-ingredient-group h4",
            ".wprm-recipe-ingredient",
        )
```

That is all that is required to add support for ingredient groups to this scraper.

Some other examples of scrapers that support ingredient groups are:

* [BudgetBytes](https://github.com/hhursev/recipe-scrapers/blob/main/recipe_scrapers/budgetbytes.py)
* [NYTimes](https://github.com/hhursev/recipe-scrapers/blob/main/recipe_scrapers/nytimes.py)
* [PickUpLimes](https://github.com/hhursev/recipe-scrapers/blob/main/recipe_scrapers/pickuplimes.py)
* [RealFoodTesco](https://github.com/hhursev/recipe-scrapers/blob/main/recipe_scrapers/realfoodtesco.py)

### What if `group_ingredients()` doesn't work?

The `group_ingredients` function relies on being able to identify all the group headings with a single CSS selector and all the ingredients with a single CSS selector. However, this is not always possible - it depends on how the website lays out it's HTML.

> In these cases supporting ingredient groups may still be possible. The implementation of `ingredient_groups()` in the scraper will be implemented uniquely to that scraper. The `group_ingredients()` helper may provide a useful template, even if it can't be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In these cases supporting ingredient groups may still be possible. The `group_ingredients()` helper method is only that: an optional helper -- you can always implement custom grouping logic yourself by overriding `ingredient_groups()` directly in your scraper if you can't find suitable CSS selectors for the ingredients and groups.
```
